---
layout: default
title: Intel's LGA1700 Bending Problems
parent: Hardware
---
Written by @temptd

With Intel's changes to the IHS (integrated heat spreader) with their 12th gen, Alder Lake, and likewise 13th gen, Raptor Lake, many users have reported problems with temperatures they can't control. A sizeable portion of this can be attributed to *bending*. 

Bending occurs due to uneven pressure spread across the CPU where the pressure is applied to the middle of the CPU and that pressure "dissipates" the closer to the edges of the CPU. Hence, it bends.

Intel has stated that while this is true, it is not a cause for concern and does not result in hardware running outside of specifications. This, blatantly, is false. The issue has persisted into 13th gen Intel as well, being a contributor to some customers having an outright horrible experience trying to cool their CPU, even when not overclocked and using an appropriate cooler.

Regarding the "fix", a *bending corrector frame* (BCF): Intel has stated they strongly recommend against the use of modifications to the socket, stating 'such modifications would result in the processor being run outside of specifications and may void any product warranties.'" This is provided the BCF does not correct the issues you're facing, and if it doesn't, you should be looking to get a replacement if it's still within the return window. Intel is generally pretty decent about warranty replacements as well if it is outside of the return window.

If you are facing LGA1700 (12th gen, 13th gen, and 14th gen when that is released) heat issues, do *NOT* run out and grab an expensive AIO (water cooler) to try to correct the problem. Try using a BCF first. They're inexpensive ($5-20). Putting a "better" cooler on an already pricey part for your computer seems smart at first, but the problem isn't the cooler not being enough, it's a matter of the IHS being bent/warped with pressure. The cooler *cannot* make good enough contact *to* cool the CPU the way it normally would be able to.
